Add 4.5-dev4 blog post (#1062)
godotengine/godot-website: collections/_article/dev-snapshot-godot-4-5-dev-4.md

---

*The cover illustration is from* [**Ambidextro**](https://store.steampowered.com/app/3445580/Ambidextro/?curator_clanid=41324400), *a precision-platformer where you must control two characters simultaneously, one with each hand. It is developed by [Majorariatto](https://www.majorariatto.com/). You can get the game [on Steam](https://store.steampowered.com/app/3445580/Ambidextro/?curator_clanid=41324400) and follow the developer on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/majorariatto).*

## Highlights

In case you missed them, see the [4.5 dev 1](/article/dev-snapshot-godot-4-5-dev-1/), [4.5 dev 2](/article/dev-snapshot-godot-4-5-dev-2/), and [4.5 dev 3](/article/dev-snapshot-godot-4-5-dev-2/) release notes for an overview of some key features which were already in that snapshot, and are therefore still available for testing in dev 4.

### Move 3D physics interpolation to `SceneTree`

> The old design of the 3D interpolation system was fundamentally flawed, as it operated under the assumption that the scene side wouldn't require access to interpolated xforms. This isn't something that could've just been "patched in" either, thanks to the multithreaded design, command queue, and stalling. Lacking any sort of workaround, [lawnjelly](https://github.com/lawnjelly) has taken a break from being the person responsible for 90% of 3.x code nowadays & [forward-ported](https://github.com/godotengine/godot/pull/103685) a solution via [GH-104269](https://github.com/godotengine/godot/pull/104269). This addresses the problem by porting all logic to the `SceneTree`, but while completely retaining the existing API!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The old design of the 3D interpolation system was fundamentally flawed, as it operated under the assumption that the scene side wouldn't require access to interpolated xforms. This isn't something that could've just been "patched in" either, thanks to the multithreaded design, command queue, and stalling. Lacking any sort of workaround, [lawnjelly](https://github.com/lawnjelly) has taken a break from being the person responsible for 90% of 3.x code nowadays and [forward-ported](https://github.com/godotengine/godot/pull/103685) a solution via [GH-104269](https://github.com/godotengine/godot/pull/104269). This addresses the problem by porting all logic to the `SceneTree`, but while completely retaining the existing API!
```

<video autoplay loop muted playsinline>
  <source src="/storage/blog/dev-snapshot-godot-4-5-dev-5/export-variant.webm?1" type="video/webm">
</video>

### Stackable outlines on `Label`

Have you ever been in the situation where you want to add fancy outline/shadow effects to your text, only to realize that you're stuck with a single iteration of each? Sure, you can double-up the amount of text objects directly atop one-another, but that's cumbersome & doesn't account for outlines affecting other outlines. There must be a better way! Well, thanks to the efforts of [Delsin-Yu](https://github.com/Delsin-Yu), users no longer have to struggle with this moral conundrum. Instead, they can simply take advantage of [GH-104731](https://github.com/godotengine/godot/pull/104731) adding support for stacked layers of effects; no cumbersome workarounds required.

![Stacked outlines](/storage/blog/dev-snapshot-godot-4-5-dev-5/stacked-outlines.webp)

### Specular occlusion from ambient light

> Our renderer currently lacks a cheap option for specular occlusion, causing certain metallic/reflective materials to still recieve reflections when they should be darkened/occluded. [Lander](https://github.com/lander-vr) rectifies this limitation in [GH-106145](https://github.com/godotengine/godot/pull/106145), where specular occlusion is added based on ambient light. As users might prefer the old visuals, this is now handled through a toggle in the project settings; the differences can be observed here:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our renderer currently lacks a cheap option for specular occlusion, causing certain metallic/reflective materials to still receive reflections when they should be darkened/occluded. [Lander](https://github.com/lander-vr) rectified this limitation in [GH-106145](https://github.com/godotengine/godot/pull/106145), where specular occlusion is added based on ambient light. As users might prefer the old visuals, this is now handled through a toggle in the project settings; the differences can be observed here:
```
